1. To install a local copy of the VM, use VMWare Player or Workstation for Windows 
   or VMWare Fusion for machine.

2. Download the OVA file from the following link:
   https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NvK7lUSc8rcm3ODyoaMBTY1r0N5fHrKw/view?usp=sharing

3. The OVA is about 30GB and you will need an additional 60GB to create the VM from it. So make sure 
   you have enough space. You can delete the OVA file when done, or move both to an external drive.

4. Using VMWare, create a new VM and choose the option to import an existing VM and point to the OVA file.

5. Configure the VM size according to your available resources on your machine. I suggest 4 cores and 8GG
   RAM, but you can got bigger if you have it.

6. After the VM is finished importing, you should be able to start it up. When you get to the login screen,
   use either the following student or root login information:
   Username:          student
   Password:          student
 
7. Whenever you launch a terminal just make sure it is logged in as root and if necessary type sudo su

8. You can pull the latest version of the class materials by changing to the /class folder and typing:
   git fetch --all && git reset --hard main && git pull

   This will lose any changes you made to files in that folder but get the latest from the git repository.

9. To start up the services there are scripts in the /class/bin folder which can be executed as needed in
   the following order:

   start-zookeeper
   start-kafka
   start-hadoop or format-namenode (to start completely fresh)
   start-mongo
   start-cassandra
   start-hbase

   You don't need all of them running unless you need them, but to use kafka you need the first two and for hadoop the third one.

10. Since persistence of data is not important, if anything gets corrupted and you need to reset it, run

    format-namenode

11. If the whole VM gets corrupted, just delete it and re-import it from the OVA.

12. Networking should work inside the VM and if you know how and want to you could try to install the
    VMWare tools, although you don't really need it. You can also use your host's terminal and ssh into 
    the VM if you prefer.

13. To launch notebooks, first run start-notebook, or start-remote-notebook if you want to use or own
    browser instead of the one on the VM desktop. Remember to copy the url with the token to run it inside
    the VM's browser. To use your host's browser the password is student when prompted.

14. There are stop scripts for each service, but you can also just shut down the VM since persistence is
    not important.

15. I usually configure the networking on the VM to autodetect so it gets it's own IP address on the
    network. Network ens33 is the on


These are the settings I used for /etc/netplan/50-cloud-init.yaml

network:
    renderer: networkd
    ethernets:
        ens33:
            dhcp4: true
    version: 2

You may also try these commands to get the networking up:
ip link set dev ens33 up
sudo service network-manager restart

